doc: update macos install doc (#926)
jellyfin/jellyfin.org: docs/general/installation/macos.md

---
uid: installation-macos
title: macOS
description: Install on macOS.
sidebar_position: 5
---

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD036 no-emphasis-as-heading -->

# Install on macOS

macOS Application packages and builds in TAR archive format are available [here](/downloads/macos).

:::note
Jellyfin requires macOS 12 or newer to run.

> :::

Reviewer: This doesn't need to be an admonition

7. Open your browser at [http://localhost:8096](http://localhost:8096).

Closing the terminal window will end Jellyfin. Running Jellyfin in screen or tmux can prevent this from happening.

### Upgrading the Portable Version

1. Download the latest version.
2. Stop the currently running server either via the dashboard or using `CTRL+C` in the terminal window.
3. Extract the latest version into Applications
4. Open Terminal and type `cd` followed with a space then drag the jellyfin folder into the terminal.
5. Type `xattr -rd com.apple.quarantine .` to remove the quarantine flag.
6. Type `codesign -fs - --deep jellyfin` to create an ad-hoc signature for the server.
7. Type `./jellyfin` to run jellyfin.
8. Open your browser at [http://localhost:8096](http://localhost:8096)

### Uninstalling the Portable Version

1. Stop the currently running server either via the dashboard or using `CTRL+C` in the terminal window.
2. Move `/Application/jellyfin-version` folder to the Trash. Replace version with the actual version number you are trying to delete.
3. Delete the folder `~/.config/jellyfin/`
4. Delete the folder `~/.local/share/jellyfin/`

### Using FFmpeg with the Portable Version

> The portable version doesn't come with FFmpeg by default, so to install FFmpeg you have following options:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The portable version doesn't come with FFmpeg by default. There are a few options for installing FFmpeg:
```

> - download the jellyfin-ffmpeg from [jellyfin-repo](https://repo.jellyfin.org/?path=/ffmpeg/macos) (recommended)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- download jellyfin-ffmpeg from the [Jellyfin repo](https://repo.jellyfin.org/?path=/ffmpeg/macos) (recommended)
```

- use the package manager homebrew by typing `brew install ffmpeg` into your Terminal ([here's how to install homebrew if you don't have it already](https://treehouse.github.io/installation-guides/mac/homebrew)
- download the most recent static build from [this link](https://evermeet.cx/ffmpeg/get/zip) (compiled by a third party see [this page](https://evermeet.cx/ffmpeg/) for options and information) (Apple Silicon builds are not available from this source)
- compile from source available from the official [website](https://ffmpeg.org/download.html)

> Once downloaded, you need to do remove the quarantine flag for the `ffmpeg` and `ffprobe`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once downloaded, remove the quarantine flag for the `ffmpeg` and `ffprobe`.
```

Ensure that both `ffmpeg` and `ffprobe` are located at the same path, then execute the following command:

```shell

> cd /path/to/ffmpeg/folder

Reviewer: Tell the user to open a terminal in the path by right clicking and choose `open folder in terminal`?

Reviewer: Nvm that is from automator script I forgot about that
